hello all
Clif cramp in this video I'm going to
take the same silhouetted treat I went
ahead and cleaned it up just a little
bit more and turned it into a grayscale
and I'll show you in this particular
video a way to start to develop the
foliage light side dark side and I have
several different techniques to do this
or how to do this I could just do direct
paint and still in the grayscale right
now I haven't considered color remember
I start with shape form color detail so
in this one I'm starting to develop more
of the form but I am going to keep it
pretty much still in a grayscale as I do
this again I can direct paint it I can
bring me in a particular texture which
I'll show you in another video and then
in this one what I'll do is I'll just
show you a few brush techniques and some
layer function techniques to get the
desired effect or at least the start of
the desired effect that I want so what
I'm going to do is create a new layer
and then come on over to my
impressionist brush and on this
particular layer what I'm going to do is
take the layer function and I'm going to
go to overlay what this essentially does
is it almost creates what's underneath
as a mask so I won't be painting even
though I go way out into the negative
space here it won't be showing well I'll
demonstrate that right now so if I if I
go to white and again scaling up and
down on my brush by using the option
command key I'll go ahead and start to
just develop a light side with some
texture here and what I'm gonna do is go
ahead and bring the opacity down to
about 50% on this because I want to
creep up on creep up on it
and we'll just start to develop this
with a larger brush first and then if I
go darker here it will give me a little
bit more of a mid-tone and some lights
it's the attribute of the impressionist
brush gives you a few different values
and if I bring back here into the dark
press a little harder on my Wacom tablet
start to develop a little bit more of a
dark value it's some dark under the
underside of the tree here and I'm just
playing with again trying to create my
light side in my dark side with this
particular value now if I go to a
smaller brush I can kind of bounce back
and forth when we go here to white and
we will just get some smaller leaves and
things like that
and again this isn't necessarily to get
me to detail yet it's just to get me to
a point where I can get to detail
actually so we're just going to continue
to develop this texture here and again
you can notice that I can go way out
over here it's not adhering to anything
because it isn't overlay layer so it's
just a gearing adhering to the value
that's underneath and like I said before
essentially creating a mask will drop a
little bit down here get a little bit
smaller with some of these darker values
and again I can go into the exterior and
always adjusting what you're doing so we
start general and then we move towards
the specific we're still in that fairly
general stage
and if I want to I can go ahead and
create a new layer and in this layer I'm
going to take the airbrush tool and I'm
going to take pepper-spray and so I will
drop this value down to about 50% also
and we'll grab a light here and I'm just
going to create this light peppery
spray here a little bit dark and as you
can see I'm overspray and then again if
I set this to overlay it just adheres to
the value that's underneath there's
spray just a little bit more and then
I'm going to back this about this way
down because it just want a little bit
of texture on there so a little bit more
like to be so contrasting and then in
this layer I'm going to go back to the
layer underneath and then this one just
allows me to play with the contrast just
a little bit more that's why I started
the 50% opacity boosted up to about 60%
so that's one way to start developing
some of the foliage obviously this is
these are short videos so just a few
minutes in to start getting texture and
then you would start to clean it up with
a number of different techniques I mean
if I if I go in real quick if I go to
the water rape brush get a little bit
smaller I could start to blend some of
these values like so and just kind of
move around with them so they're not so
uniform as far as the impressionist
brush goes and there you have it so this
is the start of the creating a
foolish for your future thanks again for
watching